doc/source/development/py3.rst, before:

Supporting Python 2 and Python 3
################################

skbio simultaneously supports Python 2.7 and 3.3+ by writing code that
works unchanged in both major versions.

As a compatibility layer, we're using the future project
http://python-future.org/ which "allows you to use a single, clean
Python 3.x-compatible codebase to support both Python 2 and Python 3
with minimal overhead". It includes functionality from "six, IPython,
Jinja2, Django, and Pandas".

So far, this notes are based on issues that have appeared when porting
skbio, so it is not a complete guide. Refer to the `official porting
guide <https://docs.python.org/3/howto/pyporting.html>`_ and the
`python-future docs <http://python-future.org/>`_ for more
information.

Iterators
=========

Builtins
--------

Builtin iterators in Python 2 usually return lists, and have an
alternative that returns and iterator (i.e., `range` and `xrange`,
`items` and `iteritems`). In Python 3, only the iterator version
exists but it uses the list-returning name (i.e., `range` and
`items`).

When iterating over the resulting object, the recommended approach
depends on efficiency concerns:

- If iteration only happens over a few items, you can use the
  functions that exist both in Python 2 and Python 3.

- If the number of iterations can be large and efficiency is
  important, use the future package.

+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|Small # of          |Efficient versions          |Notes               |
|iterations (returns |(always iterators)          |                    |
|lists in py2,       |                            |                    |
|iterators in py3)   |                            |                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`zip`               |`future.builtins.zip`       |                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`range`             |`future.builtins.range`     |                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`map`               |`future.builtins.map`       |Prefer lists        |
|                    |                            |comprehensions or   |
|                    |                            |for loops in        |
|                    |                            |general. Avoid      |
|                    |                            |calling functions   |
|                    |                            |that cause side     |
|                    |                            |effects when using  |
|                    |                            |map. Gotcha: Py3's  |
|                    |                            |`map` stops when the|
|                    |                            |shortest iterable is|
|                    |                            |exhausted, but Py2's|
|                    |                            |pads them with      |
|                    |                            |`None` till the     |
|                    |                            |longest iterable is |
|                    |                            |exhausted.          |
|                    |                            |                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`filter`            |`future.builtins.filter`    |                    |
|                    |                            |                    |
|                    |                            |                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`functools.reduce`  |`functools.reduce`          |Avoid using the     |
|                    |                            |global reduce       |
|                    |                            |available in Py2 (it|
|                    |                            |is the same as the  |
|                    |                            |`functools` one)    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`d.items()`         |`future.utils.viewitems(d)` |Efficient iteration |
|                    |                            |over d *and*        |
|                    |                            |set-like behaviour  |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`d.values()`        |`future.utils.viewvalues(d)`|Efficient iteration |
|                    |                            |over d *and*        |
|                    |                            |set-like behaviour  |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`d.keys()`          |`future.utils.viewkeys(d)`  |Hardly ever needed, |
|                    |                            |as iterating over a |
|                    |                            |dictionary yields   |
|                    |                            |keys (thus sorted(d)|
|                    |                            |returns the sorted  |
|                    |                            |keys).              |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+


When not directly iterating over an iterator, don't write code that
relies on list-like behaviour: you may need to cast it explicitly. The
two following snippets show some possible issues::

    a = zip(...)
    b = zip(...)
    c = a + b  # succeeds in Py2 (list concatenation), TypeError in Py3

::

    s = map(int, range(2))
    1 in s  # True (membership testing in a list is an O(n) bad idea)
    0 in s  # True in Py2, False in Py3

Advancing an iterator
---------------------

Always use the next function, which is available from Python 2.6
onwards. Never call the next method, which doesn't exist in Py3.

Implementing new iterators
--------------------------

Implement the `__next__` special method, like in Py3, and decorate the
class::

    from future.utils import implements_iterator

    @implements_iterator
    class ParameterIterBase(object):
    def __next__(self):
        return next(self._generator)

It is also possible to subclass from `future.builtins.object`. In this
case, no decorator is needed.

Changes in the standard library
===============================

To deal with modules that live under a different place, future
provides a context manager::

    # Example from future's documentation
    from future import standard_library

    with standard_library.hooks():
        from http.client import HttpConnection
        from itertools import filterfalse
        import html.parser
        import queue

StringIO and BytesIO
--------------------

In Py2 there are three flavours of StringIO: a pure Python module
(StringIO), an accelerated version (cStringIO), and another one in the
io module. They all behave in a slightly different way, with differnt
memory and performance characteristics. So far, we're using::

    from future.utils.six import StringIO

It refers to `io.StringIO` in Py3, and `StringIO.StringIO` in Py3.

If you need a binary file-like object (see the Text vs bytes section),
use `future.utils.six.BytesIO`, which refers to `io.BytesIO` in Py3,
and `StringIO.StringIO` in Py2.

Text vs bytes
=============

This is a fundamental change between Py2 and Py3. It is very important
to always distinguish text from bytes.

String literals that are to be treated as bytes need the `b`
prefix. String literals that are text need either the `u` prefix or
`from __future__ import unicode_literals` at the top.

Text processing
---------------

After going through Nick Coghlan's "Processing Text Files in Python 3"
(https://ncoghlan_devs-python-notes.readthedocs.org/en/latest/python3/text_file_processing.html)
I think the way forward is to process ASCII-like files (fasta, fastq)
as binary files, and decode to strings some parts, if necessary. This
is faster than processing them as text files, especially in Py3. In
fact, it seems (from functions like `_phred_to_ascii*`) that these
formats are in fact mixed binary and ASCII, which I think puts us in
the same place as people dealing with `network protocols
<https://ncoghlan_devs-python-notes.readthedocs.org/en/latest/python3/binary_protocols.html>`_:
it's more cumbersome to do in Py3, especially before Python 3.5
arrives, which will `reintroduce binary string interpolation
<http://legacy.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0460/>`_).

Gotchas
-------
Comparing bytes and text strings always returns `False` in Pyhon 3 (as
they're incompatible types, and comparisons are required to succeed by
the language)::

    >>> b'GATCAT' == 'GATCAT'
    False

Calling `str` on a bytes instance returns a string with the `b` prefix
and quotes, which will give unexpected results when using string
formatting::

    >>> "Sequence {}".format(b'GATCAT')
    "Sequence b'GATCAT'"

Run python with the `-b` flag to detect these two bug-prone usages,
and `-bb` to turn them into exceptions.

Instance checking: basestring, str, unicode, bytes, long, int
=============================================================

Strings
-------

When testing if a variable is a string use
`future.utils.six.string_types`. It refers to `basestring` in Py2 and
`str` in Py3. `binary_type` and `text_type` are also available.

Numbers
-------

The `long` type no longer exists in Py2. To test if a number is an
integer (`int` or `long` in Py2, `int` in Py3), compare it to
`future.builtins.int`.

Third party modules
===================

Numpy
-----

Try to avoid setting dtypes to a string (i.e., use `np.float64`
instead of `'float'`, etc).

Testing
=======

`unittest.assertEquals` is deprecated. Use `unittest.assertEqual`
instead. The complete list of deprecated testing methods is `here
<https://docs.python.org/3.4/library/unittest.html#deprecated-aliases>`_

Commit message:

DOC: expand on how iterators are exhausted (thanks @wasade)

doc/source/development/py3.rst, after:

Supporting Python 2 and Python 3
################################

skbio simultaneously supports Python 2.7 and 3.3+ by writing code that
works unchanged in both major versions.

As a compatibility layer, we're using the future project
http://python-future.org/ which "allows you to use a single, clean
Python 3.x-compatible codebase to support both Python 2 and Python 3
with minimal overhead". It includes functionality from "six, IPython,
Jinja2, Django, and Pandas".

So far, this notes are based on issues that have appeared when porting
skbio, so it is not a complete guide. Refer to the `official porting
guide <https://docs.python.org/3/howto/pyporting.html>`_ and the
`python-future docs <http://python-future.org/>`_ for more
information.

Iterators
=========

Builtins
--------

Builtin iterators in Python 2 usually return lists, and have an
alternative that returns and iterator (i.e., `range` and `xrange`,
`items` and `iteritems`). In Python 3, only the iterator version
exists but it uses the list-returning name (i.e., `range` and
`items`).

When iterating over the resulting object, the recommended approach
depends on efficiency concerns:

- If iteration only happens over a few items, you can use the
  functions that exist both in Python 2 and Python 3.

- If the number of iterations can be large and efficiency is
  important, use the future package.

+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|Small # of          |Efficient versions          |Notes               |
|iterations (returns |(always iterators)          |                    |
|lists in py2,       |                            |                    |
|iterators in py3)   |                            |                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`zip`               |`future.builtins.zip`       |                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`range`             |`future.builtins.range`     |                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`map`               |`future.builtins.map`       |Prefer lists        |
|                    |                            |comprehensions or   |
|                    |                            |for loops in        |
|                    |                            |general. Avoid      |
|                    |                            |calling functions   |
|                    |                            |that cause side     |
|                    |                            |effects when using  |
|                    |                            |map. Gotcha: Py3's  |
|                    |                            |`map` stops when the|
|                    |                            |shortest iterable is|
|                    |                            |exhausted, but Py2's|
|                    |                            |pads them with      |
|                    |                            |`None` till the     |
|                    |                            |longest iterable is |
|                    |                            |exhausted.          |
|                    |                            |                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`filter`            |`future.builtins.filter`    |                    |
|                    |                            |                    |
|                    |                            |                    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`functools.reduce`  |`functools.reduce`          |Avoid using the     |
|                    |                            |global reduce       |
|                    |                            |available in Py2 (it|
|                    |                            |is the same as the  |
|                    |                            |`functools` one)    |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`d.items()`         |`future.utils.viewitems(d)` |Efficient iteration |
|                    |                            |over d *and*        |
|                    |                            |set-like behaviour  |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`d.values()`        |`future.utils.viewvalues(d)`|Efficient iteration |
|                    |                            |over d *and*        |
|                    |                            |set-like behaviour  |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+
|`d.keys()`          |`future.utils.viewkeys(d)`  |Hardly ever needed, |
|                    |                            |as iterating over a |
|                    |                            |dictionary yields   |
|                    |                            |keys (thus sorted(d)|
|                    |                            |returns the sorted  |
|                    |                            |keys).              |
+--------------------+----------------------------+--------------------+


When not directly iterating over an iterator, don't write code that
relies on list-like behaviour: you may need to cast it explicitly. The
following snippets show some possible issues::

    a = zip(...)
    b = zip(...)
    c = a + b  # succeeds in Py2 (list concatenation), TypeError in Py3

::

    s = map(int, range(2))
    1 in s  # True (membership testing in a list is an O(n) bad idea)
    0 in s  # True in Py2, False in Py3

In Py2, `s` is a list, so clearly `(1 in [0, 1]) == True` and `(0 in
[0, 1]) == True`. In Py3, `s` is an iterator and the items it yields
are discarded. Let's see an example with a generator to try and make
it more clear::

    >>> s = ((i, print(i)) for i in [0, 1, 2])  # print will let us see the iteration
    >>> (1, None) in s  # Starts iterating over s...
    0
    1                   # ...till it finds (1, None)
    True
    >>> (0, None) in s  # Continues iterating over s
    2                   # s is exhausted
    False               # but (0, None) isn't there


Advancing an iterator
---------------------

Always use the next function, which is available from Python 2.6
onwards. Never call the next method, which doesn't exist in Py3.

Implementing new iterators
--------------------------

Implement the `__next__` special method, like in Py3, and decorate the
class::

    from future.utils import implements_iterator

    @implements_iterator
    class ParameterIterBase(object):
    def __next__(self):
        return next(self._generator)

It is also possible to subclass from `future.builtins.object`. In this
case, no decorator is needed.

Changes in the standard library
===============================

To deal with modules that live under a different place, future
provides a context manager::

    # Example from future's documentation
    from future import standard_library

    with standard_library.hooks():
        from http.client import HttpConnection
        from itertools import filterfalse
        import html.parser
        import queue

StringIO and BytesIO
--------------------

In Py2 there are three flavours of StringIO: a pure Python module
(StringIO), an accelerated version (cStringIO), and another one in the
io module. They all behave in a slightly different way, with differnt
memory and performance characteristics. So far, we're using::

    from future.utils.six import StringIO

It refers to `io.StringIO` in Py3, and `StringIO.StringIO` in Py3.

If you need a binary file-like object (see the Text vs bytes section),
use `future.utils.six.BytesIO`, which refers to `io.BytesIO` in Py3,
and `StringIO.StringIO` in Py2.

Text vs bytes
=============

This is a fundamental change between Py2 and Py3. It is very important
to always distinguish text from bytes.

String literals that are to be treated as bytes need the `b`
prefix. String literals that are text need either the `u` prefix or
`from __future__ import unicode_literals` at the top.

Text processing
---------------

After going through Nick Coghlan's "Processing Text Files in Python 3"
(https://ncoghlan_devs-python-notes.readthedocs.org/en/latest/python3/text_file_processing.html)
I think the way forward is to process ASCII-like files (fasta, fastq)
as binary files, and decode to strings some parts, if necessary. This
is faster than processing them as text files, especially in Py3. In
fact, it seems (from functions like `_phred_to_ascii*`) that these
formats are in fact mixed binary and ASCII, which I think puts us in
the same place as people dealing with `network protocols
<https://ncoghlan_devs-python-notes.readthedocs.org/en/latest/python3/binary_protocols.html>`_:
it's more cumbersome to do in Py3, especially before Python 3.5
arrives, which will `reintroduce binary string interpolation
<http://legacy.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0460/>`_).

Gotchas
-------
Comparing bytes and text strings always returns `False` in Pyhon 3 (as
they're incompatible types, and comparisons are required to succeed by
the language)::

    >>> b'GATCAT' == 'GATCAT'
    False

Calling `str` on a bytes instance returns a string with the `b` prefix
and quotes, which will give unexpected results when using string
formatting::

    >>> "Sequence {}".format(b'GATCAT')
    "Sequence b'GATCAT'"

Run python with the `-b` flag to detect these two bug-prone usages,
and `-bb` to turn them into exceptions.

Instance checking: basestring, str, unicode, bytes, long, int
=============================================================

Strings
-------

When testing if a variable is a string use
`future.utils.six.string_types`. It refers to `basestring` in Py2 and
`str` in Py3. `binary_type` and `text_type` are also available.

Numbers
-------

The `long` type no longer exists in Py2. To test if a number is an
integer (`int` or `long` in Py2, `int` in Py3), compare it to
`future.builtins.int`.

Third party modules
===================

Numpy
-----

Try to avoid setting dtypes to a string (i.e., use `np.float64`
instead of `'float'`, etc).

Testing
=======

`unittest.assertEquals` is deprecated. Use `unittest.assertEqual`
instead. The complete list of deprecated testing methods is `here
<https://docs.python.org/3.4/library/unittest.html#deprecated-aliases>`_
